# **LetsChat**

LetsChat is a multithreaded client-server based chat application where users can connect to the Server and send messages to one another.

## **Description:**

LetsChat is a command-line application with text interface, developed using Java Socket Programming and multithreading concepts. In this application, initially the server will be set up with a desired portnumber. Once the server is set up, the users can connect to the Server by entering an username and get access to the features as Clients. The client can either choose to broadcast a message similar to group chat or send personal messages to other active clients. The user can also check active clients at any particular point of time. Multiple concurrent threads are generated by  to accept multiple client requests and thus achieving parallel execution. Multithreading is achieved by extending predefined Thread class and using it's functions in java. Mutual exclusion for shared data or resources is achieved by using synchronised keyword which allows access to only one thread at a time.

## **Prerequisites:**

Socket programming concepts and Exception handling in Java.

## **Execution:**

### Use the following commands to get started:

```
javac Server.java
javac Client.java
```

### **Server:**

```
java Server.java
```

We can specify desired portnumber for Server using below command instead of above command in which portnumber is set to 1729.

```
java Server.java portnumber
```

### **Client:**

```
java Client
```

Below command is used to get connected to a server with specific portnumber instead of above command.

```
java Client portnumber
```

## **Screenshots of working:**

